When a teenager, say, fourteen, thirteen, fifteen years old,
Is surrounded by his best friends
In a safe neighborhood,
Stable neighborhood.
Happy families.
And,
A faithful church,
The last thing on his mind,
Is that in sixty years he will?
Stand before,
The family of his friend and speak at his funeral.
we didn't know it at the time.
Sydney and I and others.
We didn't know it at the time because we just took it for granted that from 1956
To about 1964,
Bradley Boulevard in Greenville, South Carolina was.
Paradise.
Nobody locked their doors at night.
We all played games and ran through the backyards after dark and nobody called the police.
I actually drove my go-kart
On the streets.
Of the neighborhood.
Four blocks to the south, to the northeast,
Was white Oak Baptist Church.
The worshiping relational hub
Of.
My life, Sydney's life,
Our friendships
And at the center of that
Cluster of people there was Sydney,
And Billy, and Joel, and Carol, and Nancy Ponder, and.
Others.
He lived four doors down.
From where I lived,
We never played in
Parks,
Because our yards,
We're our kingdom.
And where the canyons and prairies of the western
Wildness,
Then you could shoot each other there
One of the reasons I'm here
This afternoon is because.
That little world of friendships, it wasn't big at all. it was a little world of friendships.
Was more precious, more powerful, more significant.
in my life then I knew at the time and then most people know today.
I felt very much an outlier.
at Greenville Junior High and Wade Hampton High School.
For whatever reason,,
And...
With my circle of friends and with Sydney,
um i was loved.
We wouldn't even call it love. That would be squishy and goosey and...
You know, teenagers don't talk about loving each other.
but it was.
I wouldn't be ashamed to talk about it today.
We were home with each other.
The thought that,
You had to pretend.
Be a hypocrite in order to be accepted in this little circle. Never entered your mind.
Being real, being authentic, just being who you were wasn't something you did. It was just something you were.
When ah, when a young person, a child, a teenager has people like that around them that are good people with whom they don't have.
We don't have to be in any way pretentious about
That brings more stability and power and health and maturity into a boy's soul than he knows.
He doesn't even know what's happening to him.
And how good it is and how much strength is being imparted.
To his
Life
So whether it was ping pong in my garage,
Or swimming in the backyard pool, or wearing our green uniforms to play church softball or eating pizza at the picnic table, or studying a circle.
A circle saying the Bible on Sunday night in a circle. It was a stabilizing thing.
Empowering, enriching,
Force for a very insecure.
Outlier
Who didn't know how much good was coming into his life.
And Jesus
Was always the greatest.
He was always the greatest.
We never doubted it.
The Bible was always sure.
We couldn't have named what was going on in in our spiritual lives
what I mean by that is
We saw
Jesus, we saw the Bible, we saw the people of Jesus.
and it was real. he was real.
he was.
Self-authenticating,
And we didn't know that word good grief.
That word comes into my vocabulary decades later, like how did, why did we believe?
So many kids didn't believe. Why did we believe?
Jesus was real, his word was real,
and we couldn't explain it we we couldn't explain it any more than we could explain electricity.
Or the inner workings of the
internal combustion engine or the working of photosynthesis that made plants work. We just knew plants are real.
Electricity is real.
Motors are real. The Word of God works.
Why did Sydney,
There's a question for you as well. Why did Sidney wake up a believer
For twenty five thousand days.
if you're a believer why did you wake up a believer this morning?
There's a lot of old people in this room right here.
Old people go to old people's funerals. You're not all that old.
But, uh...
So twenty five thousand is an understatement for most of you.
Why have you waked up a believer? Ask yourself that question.
I read in my devotions this morning lying in bed over Kevin's house
From the Gospel of John, this sentence, Jesus said,
I have said
See, talking about his words here now, I have said all these things to you,
To keep you from falling away.
The reason Sidney did not fall away is because of the word of God.
Worked.
It took root.
Early on,
a kept
Bearing
Fruit
The word of god
Implanted in him,
Did its?
work and so I think
The way Sydney would be happy.
with my
Closing these few remarks.
It's for me to give you two words from the word.
One for Sydney.
And one for us who remain.
So here's Sydney's word. This is 1st Thessalonians 5.
Nine and ten. and I know it in the heart because I say it to myself just before I go to sleep.
Almost every night.
And I say it because I know I might not wake up.
on earth.
The older you get the more conscious you are that death is close and therefore you you take steps i take steps for readiness
I want to be right with God.
And so I say to myself,
This is God talking now.
I have not destined you, John Piper. I have not destined you, so put your name in there.
if you're a Christian. I have not destined you for wrath.
but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, who died for you.
1.
That's sweet to go to bed on.
every night.
Wake or sleep?
You live.
Ha ha ha ha!
It's just glorious. Yes.
He is alive. Sidney's alive.
Says so.
Whether you wake or sleep, you live with Jesus.
So that's that's.
Sydney's taxed.
Sydney is alive.
And he's with Jesus because God did not destine him for wrath.
but salvation and that salvation at its apex we're at you're talking about this your house at its apex is jesus not a particular gifts.
Himself,
Okay, here's the one for us.
This text just blows me away. I love this passage of Scripture. It just goes so off the charts.
Glorious.
So Paul is saying to the Corinthians in chapter three, verse twenty one of First Corinthians, and they're all,
Bragging.
Over each other. I'm of Paul. I'm of Apollos. I'm of.
C first. my teacher is better than your teacher.
And Paul says this,
Let no one boast in men.
For all things,
Are yours.
Whew.
Whether Paul or Cephas or Apollos or the world or life or death,
Or things present or things to come, all are yours.
And you are Christ's.
and Christ is God's.
Somebody asked me the other day when I was exulting in sects,
All things are yours. Why are you bragging about being better than anybody? you own the world, Christian. it's just a matter of time until you inherit the earth.
And he said, but what does it mean when it says death is yours?
All things are yours if you're a Christian.
Life is yours.
death is yours
I don't want it. But now what you'd be prone to see is not the gift I want.
Oh yes it is.
It's not just, it's not...
The reason it's yours
Is?
It is your servant.
All things are your servants in Christ. God is sovereign. He makes everything work together for the good of his children. Death is one of those things. And it's
It serves Sydney,
By putting him right in the presence of Jesus.
It serves us by sobering us,
Making us hopeful because it's been defeated by Jesus.
So I think we can say,
Carol.
Death is mine.
Thus, servant,
It doesn't control me.
I'm not a slave.
I own it.
And it does for me what's good for me.
And it took my husband, it took my dad.
For his great good,
And to bring me into a closer relationship with Jesus.
So, Father, as
We press on to sing and to acknowledge your goodness in giving us, sue me for the season that we.
Had him.
We thank you.
Thank you that Jesus loved us and gave himself for us so that we're not appointed for wrath.
but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus. So when we live or die,
We live with him.
Bless the remainder of our time.
And oh God, provide every comfort,
And every need that this family will face.
in these coming days of adjustment, I ask in Jesus' name.
Amen.